>> Brown: A LETTER SENT TO THE
WHITE HOUSE WAS SIMILAR TO TWO
POISON-LACED ENVELOPES MAILED TO
NEW YORK CITY MAYOR MICHAEL
BLOOMBERG AND HIS GUN CONTROL
GROUP.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
GET THE LATEST ON THE SUSPICIOUS
PACKAGES THAT CONTAINED THREATS
OF GUN VIOLENCE AND POSSIBLY THE
DEADLY POISON RICIN.
>> Brown: THEN, WE TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK AT JAMES COMEY, A FORMER
TOP JUSTICE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL
IN THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION,
WIDELY REPORTED TO BE PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S PICK TO HEAD THE F.B.I.
>> Woodruff: WE BEGIN A SERIES
OF REPORTS ON LONG TERM CARE IN
AMERICA.
TONIGHT, RAY SUAREZ TELLS THE
STORY OF ONE WOMAN'S STRUGGLE TO
RE FCAOR HER MOTHER WITH
ALZHEIMER'S.
>> NOBODY UNDERSTANDS MY MOTHER
THE WAY I DO AND SOMEONE CAN
TAKE CARE OF HER AND PROVIDE
SUSTENANCE BUT NO ONE CAN TAKE
CARE OF MY MOTHER THE WAY I DO.
>> Brown: WE EXAMINE A CHINESE
COMPANY'S BID TO BUY SMITHFIELD
FARMS, ONE OF AMERICA'S OLDEST
AND BIGGEST PORK PRODUCERS AND
THE QUESTIONS RAISED BY THE
DEAL.
>> Woodruff: AND WE CLOSE WITH
THE AUTHORS OF A NEW MEMOIR.
BROTHERS WHO CAME FROM INDIA TO
THE U.S. IN THE '70s AND BECAME
DOCTORS AT THE TOP OF THEIR
FIELDS.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Brown: THE WORD CAME FROM THE
SECRET SERVICE TODAY:
ANOTHER SUSPICIOUS LETTER HAS
BEEN INTERCEPTED AT THE WHITE
HOUSE MAIL SCREENING FACILITY.
IT'S UNDERGOING TESTING.
THE LETTER IS SIMILAR TO TWO
OTHERS SENT FROM LOUISIANA TO
NEW YORK CITY MAYOR MICHAEL
BLOOMBERG AND TO HIS GROUP
ADVOCATING GUN CONTROL.
THOSE HAVE TESTED POSITIVE
INITIALLY FOR RICIN.
NEW YORK POLICE COMMISSIONER RAY
KELLY DISCUSSED THE SITUATION
TODAY.
>> I BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE
THREE LETTERS, THE LETTERS I
ALSO BELIEVE ARE THE SAME.
THEY ARE ADDRESSED ON FRONT OF
THE ENVELOPE, BUTOT I NN THE
LETTER ITSELF.
IN THE LETTER IT SAYS YOU AND
THEN IT STARTS OFF WITH THE
NARRATIVE.
SO, I DON'T WANT TO RE-PUBLISH
THE LETTERS.
THAT WOULD BE DOING THE BIDDING
OF THE INDIVIDUAL WHO SENT THESE
LETTERS.
BUT THE LETTER IN ESSENCE
COMPLAINS ABOUT GUN CONTROL AND
SAYS THAT ANYONE WHO COMES FOR
MY GUNS WILL BE SHOT IN THE
FACE.
>> Brown: FOR THE LATEST ON THE
INVESTIGATION, WE TURN TO JEFF
MASON.
HE COVERS THE WHITE HOUSE FOR
REUTERS.
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: A LOT IS NOT KNOWN
AT THIS POINT BUT WHAT CAN WE
SAY ABOUT THE NEW LETTER?
>> THEY ARE NOT SAYING WHERE
THEY CAME FROM BUT THEY LOOKED
OUT FOR LETTERS AFTER THE ONES
SENT TO MAYOR BLOOMBERG, AND
INTERCEPTED THIS PARTICULAR
LETTER AT THAT MAIL SERVICE
FACILITY.
THEY WERE READY FOR IT.
THEY DID NOT OPEN IT, BUT WHEN
THEY SAW IT HAD SIMILAR ASPECTS
TO THE ONES SENT TO BLOOMBERG
AND HIS GROUP, THEY STOPPED IT.
THEY GRABBED IT.
AND THEY TURNED IT OVER TO THE
F.B.I. GLIEW AS FAR AS WE KNOW
WHEN THEY SAY "SIMILAR " SLOOS N
TERMS OF WHAT?
>> PROBABLY THE POSTAGE AND FROM
WHERE IT CAME.
>> Brown: IN TERMS OF THE
LETTERS TO MAYOR BLOOMBERG WE
HEARD POLICE CHIEF KELLY TALK
ABOUT SPECIFIC TIES TO GUNS.
>> CORRECT.
AND THE PRESIDENT HAS,
OBVIOUSLY, BEEN OUT IN FRONT ON
GUN CONTROL AS WELL.
ALTHOUGH, I NOT EVERYTHING HE WT
OF HE WANTS HAS PASSED.
>> Announcer: HOW DOES THIS
WORK?
THIS FACILITY, WHERE IS IT?
WHO IS LOOKING FOR THINGS?
>> THERE IS A LOT OF MAIL THAT
GOES TO THE PRESIDENT EVERY
YEAR.
MORE THAN 1 MILLION OF PACKAGES
AND LETTERS COME IN THROUGH A
FACILITY IN WASHINGTON, D.C.  SO
THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO LOOK
THROUGH THAT MAIL OR DIVIDE IT
AND MAKE SURE IT GOES TO THE
RIGHT PLACE EVERY DAY.
AND THEY HAVE A SCREENING
PROCESS, AND IN THIS CASE, AS I
SAID BEFORE, THE SECRET SERVICE
WAS WATCHING OUT FOR SOMETHING
AFTER THIS NEWS BROKE ABOUT THE
MAIL IN NEW YORK.
>> Brown: THIS IS DELIBERATELY
AWAY FROM THE WHITE HOUSE,
RIGHT?
THERE'S A HISTORY HERE.
>> TINDEED, AND IT'S IMPORTANT
TO NOTE THAT THIS LETTER NEVER
MADE IT TO THE PRESIDENT, JUST
LIKE THE PREVIOUS TIME WHEN THIS
HAPPENED SEVERAL WEEKS ANOTHER
THE LETTER NEVER MADE IT AS FAR
AS THE WHITE HOUSE ITSELF OR TO
THE PRESIDENT.
THERE IS A REASON WHY THERE IS A
SCREENING FACILITY, AND THIS IS
ONE OF THEM.
>> Brown: WHAT CAN WE SAY
ABOUT RICIN ITSELF?
REMIND US A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
WHAT IT IS, HOW IT WORKS.
>> SURE.
IT'S VERY DANGEROUS.
IT CAN BE LETHAL WITHIN 36-72
HOURS.
IT COMES NATURALLY-- APPEARS
NATURALLY NONETHELESS CASTOR
BEAN AND NEEZ TO BE-- THERE NEEZ
TO BE A DELIBERATIVE ACTION TO
MAKE IT INTO POISON OR INTO A
BIOLOGICAL WEAPON SO THAT WOULD
HAVE HAD TO HAVE BEEN DONE IN
THIS PARTICULAR CASE.
>> Brown: HOW LETHAL?
IT COULD BE THE AMOUNT OF A
PINPOINT TO BE LETHAL AND TO BE
LETHAL QUICKLY.
>> Brown: WHEN WE WERE
REFERRING TO THE OTHER LETTER
SENT TO THE PRESIDENT, THAT WAS
ONLY LAST MONTH.
>> YEAH.
>> Brown: IN THAT CASE,
SOMEBODY WAS ARRESTED.
>> SOMEBODY WAS ARRESTED FROM
MISSISSIPPI, AND IN THIS CASE,
THE LETTERS TO NEW YORK-- OR TO
BLOOMBERG WERE FROM LOUISIANA.
THEY'LL CERTAINLY BE LOOKING TO
FIEND WHO SENT THESE.
>> Brown: IS THERE ANY-- I
GUESS ONE COULD THINK THERE
MIGHT BE A COPYCAT SITUATION
GOING ON HERE.
>> COULD BE A THE SECRET SERVICE
AND THEY SAID IT'S TOO SOON TO
SAY IF THERE IS A CONNECTION.
>> Brown: THERE WAS ALSO THIS
MONTH A MAN CHARGED WITH SENDING
A RICIN-LACED THROART A FEDERAL
JUDGE IN WASHINGTON STATE.
>> RIGHT.
SO IT IS HAPPENING.
ALSO PERSON TO NOTE THAT
AUTHORITIES DO SAY OFTEN WHEN
LETTER COMES THAT SAY THEY HAVE
ANTHRAX OR RICE NI RICIN IN THET
TURNS OUT TO BE BAKING SODA.
IN THE CASE OF THE LETTER SENT
TO BLOOMBERG THEY SAID THERE WAS
A SUBSTANCE WITHIN THEM THAT HAD
A BLUE OR ORANGISH HUE AND
THAT'S WHAT LED THEM TO BE
SUSPICIOUS.
>> Brown: DO WE KNOW WHAT
HAPPENS NEXT OR WHEN WE LEARN
MORE?
>> YEAH, WE DON'T KNOW WHEN
WE'LL LEARN MORE.
WE DO KNOW, HOWEVER, THE F.B.I.
AND SECRET SERVICE IS
INVESTIGATING.
SO THEY'LL BE LOOKING INTO IS
THIS VERY CLOSELY AND HOPEFULLY
GIG US DETAILS ONCE THEY HAVE
THEM.
>> Announcer: ALL RIGHT, JEFF
MASON OF REUTERS, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": THE PRESIDENT'S
EXPECTED PICK TO HEAD THE
F.B.I., THE CHALLENGE OF CARING
FOR A MOTHER WITH ALZHEIMER'S;
CHINA'S DESIRE FOR AMERICAN PORK
AND THE CHOPRA BROTHERS ON
WRITING AND MEDICINE.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
>> Holman: THERE WAS NO BREAK IN
THE BLOODSHED IN IRAQ TODAY.
AT LEAST 33 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
IN BAGHDAD, AMID A SURGE OF
SECTARIAN VIOLENCE.
IT'S A SCENE THAT'S BECOMING ALL
TOO FAMILIAR AGAIN IN IRAQ:
STREET CREWS CLEANING UP THE
CARNAGE LEFT BY BOMBS.
>> (translated): WE WERE
SITTING INSIDE OUR SHOPS WHEN WE
HEARD A BANG.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT HAPPENED, BUT
PEOPLE ARE SAYING THAT A CAR
WENT OFF AS IT WAS MOVING.
>> Holman: MOST OF TODAY'S
ATTACKS WERE CAR BOMBINGS THAT
TARGETED SHI-ITE SECTIONS OF
BAGHDAD AND HARDLY ANY PART OF
THE IRAQI CAPITAL WAS SPARED.
A CAR BOMBING ALSO HIT A MOSTLY
SUNNI SECTION OF THE CITY.
A DAY EARLIER, 30 IRAQIS DIED IN
BOMB BLASTS IN TWO OTHER BAGHDAD
NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> (translated): BOMBS WENT
OFF HERE.
ONE HERE AND THE OTHER ONE
THERE.
MANY PEOPLE WERE HURT.
WHY?
WHAT IS OUR GUILT?
>> Holman: INDEED, IRAQ IS
FACING ITS WORST OUTBREAK OF
VIOLENCE SINCE U.S. FORCES
WITHDREW IN DECEMBER 2011.
MORE THAN  500 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED IN MAY, AND MORE THAN 700
DIED IN APRIL, THE DEADLIEST
MONTH SINCE 2008.
THE VIOLENCE SURGED IN APRIL
AFTER SECURITY FORCES OF IRAQ'S
SHI-ITE-LED GOVERNMENT RAIDED A
SUNNI PROTEST CAMP NORTH OF
BAGHDAD, KILLING 20.
SUNNI MILITANTS AND AL-QAEDA'S
IRAQI WING RESPONDED, AND THE
KILLING SCARCELY HAS PAUSED
SINCE THEN.
A SHI-ITE MILITIA GROUP SAID
BUT PRIME MINISTER NOURI AL
MALIKI VOWED THIS WEEK THAT
PERPETRATORS OF THE VIOLENCE
WILL BE HUNTED DOWN, NO MATTER
WHO THEY ARE.
>> (translated): WE WILL CHASE
ALL KINDS OF OUTLAWED MILITIAS
AND GANGS THAT WANT TO INSTIGATE
A WAVE OF SECTARIAN CONFLICT AND
VIOLENCE WHICH AS FAR AS WE ARE
CONCERNED CONSTITUTE A RED LINE.
>> Holman: DESPITE THE TOUGH
TALK, IRAQ'S FOREIGN MINISTER
ACKNOWLEDGES THERE'S REAL DANGER
OF RETURNING TO THE DARK DAYS OF
A FEW YEARS AGO.
>> IT'S THE GOVERNMENT'S
RESPONSIBILITIES TO REDOUBLE ITS
EFFORTS, TO REVISE ITS SECURITY
PLANS TO CONTAIN THIS WAVE TO
PREVENT THAT FROM SLIDING INTO
SECTARIAN CONFLICT, OR WAR, AS
YOU AND I WITNESSED IN 2006-
2007.
>> Holman: IRAQIS ALSO FEAR THE
EXAMPLE OF NEIGHBORING SYRIA,
WHERE SECTARIAN DIVISIONS ARE
HELPING TO FUEL A CIVIL WAR.
IN SYRIA, PRESIDENT BASHAR
AL-ASSAD RAISED NEW FEARS TODAY,
SAYING HIS GOVERNMENT HAS
RECEIVED NEW WEAPONS FROM
RUSSIA.
HE DID NOT SAY IF THEY INCLUDE
ADVANCED AIR DEFENSE MISSILES.
SUCH WEAPONS COULD THREATEN ANY
ATTEMPT TO IMPOSE A NO-FLY ZONE
OVER SYRIA.
ASSAD SPOKE TO A LEBANESE T.V.
STATION THAT'S OWNED BY
HEZBOLLAH, THE MILITIA THAT IS
NOW AIDING HIS MILITARY.
>> (translated): THE CONTRACTS
WITH RUSSIA ARE NOT CONNECTED TO
THE CRISIS, WE HAVE BEEN
NEGOTIATING WITH THEM ON
DIFFERENT TYPES OF WEAPON FOR
YEARS.
RUSSIA AND SYRIA ARE COMMITTED
TO IMPLEMENTING THE CONTRACTS.
WE HAVE AGREED UPON WITH RUSSIA
WILL BE IMPLEMENTED.
SOME OF IT WAS IMPLEMENTED
PREVIOUSLY AND WE AND THE
RUSSIANS ARE STILL CONTINUING TO
IMPLEMENT THE CONTRACTS
>> Holman: ALSO TODAY, SYRIAN
REBELS URGENTLY APPEALED FOR
MILITARY AND HUMANITARIAN AID IN
THE TOWN OF QUSAIR.
GOVERNMENT FORCES NOW CONTROL
MOST OF THE STRATEGIC TOWN NEAR
THE LEBANESE BORDER AFTER A 12-
DAY BATTLE.
THE REBELS SAY HUNDREDS OF
WOUNDED ARE TRAPPED THERE AND
MIGHT DIE UNLESS THEY GET HELP.
TALIBAN MILITANTS IN PAKISTAN
HAVE WITHDRAWN AN OFFER TO HOLD
PEACE TALKS WITH T COUHENTRY'S
GOVERNMENT.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY CAME A
DAY AFTER THE GROUP'S NUMBER TWO
COMMANDER WALIUR REHMAN WAS
REPORTED KILLED IN A U.S. DRONE
STRIKE.
THE TALIBAN CONFIRMED HIS DEATH
TODAY.
A SPOKESMAN SAID THE PAKISTANI
GOVERNMENT HAS CONDONED THE
DRONE ATTACKS, SO THERE CAN BE
NO PEACE NEGOTIATIONS.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCED IT'S
EXTENDING ITS MAIN FORECLOSURE-
PREVENTION PROGRAM KNOWN AS
"HAMP" FOR TWO MORE YEARS,
THROUGH 2015.
SO FAR, THE PROGRAM HAS HELPED
JUST MORE THAN ONE MILLION
HOMEOWNERS REWORK THEIR LOAN
TERMS.
THE ADMISTRINATION INITIALLY
ESTIMATED THREE TO FOUR TIMES
THAT NUMBER WOULD BENEFIT.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
MORE THAN 21 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,324.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 23
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 3,491.
THE OUTSPOKEN PRIEST AND AUTHOR
REVEREND ANDREW GREELEY DIED
LAST NIGHT AT HIS HOME IN
CHICAGO.
OVER DECADES, GREELEY WAS WIDELY
QUOTED AND INTERVIEWED ON
MATTERS CONCERNING THE CATHOLIC
CHURCH.
HE OPENLY CRITICIZED THE
CHURCH'S FAILURE TO PREVENT AND
PUNISH CHILD SEX ABUSE INVOLVING
PRIESTS.
HE ALSO VOICED FRUSTRATION WITH
THE PRIMACY OF THE VATICAN, AS
IN THIS 1995 INTERVIEW WITH THE
"NEWSHOUR."
>> I DON'T APPROVE OF THE
AUTHORITARIANISM OR THE
CENTRALIZATION OF THE VATICAN.
I THINK THAT'S A DEPLORABLE
PRACTICE, AND IT'S HURTING THE
CHURCH.
THE CHURCH DOES CHANGE ITS MORAL
TEACHINGS AS IT UNDERSTANDS THE
HUMAN CONDITION BETTER.
I THINK MOST PEOPLE, MOST
ORDINARY FOLKS OUT IN THE
PARISHES ARE CATHOLICS BECAUSE
THEY LIKE BEING CATHOLIC.
THEY LIKE THE STORIES; THEY LIKE
THE IMAGERY; THEY LIKE THE
CEREMONIES; THEY LIKE THE
RITUALS; AND PARTICULARLY THEY
LIKE THE PARISH COMMUNITY.
THAT'S WHAT HOLDS THEM IN, AND
THAT'S WHY THEY'RE NOT GOING TO
GIVE IT UP.
>> Holman: GREELEY AUTHORED MORE
THAN 50 BEST-SELLING NOVELS,
DOZENS OF NON-FICTION WORKS, AND
A WEEKLY COLUMN FOR THE "CHICAGO
SUN-TIMES."
HE WAS 85 YEARS OLD.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN BACK TO
WASHINGTON AND EXAMINE THE MAN
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS EXPECTED TO
CHOOSE AS THE NEW F.B.I.
DIRECTOR, AND WHAT HE'LL FACE
LEADING THE AGENCY.
JAMES COMEY WOULD COME TO THE
F.B.I. WITH A REPUBLICAN RESUME,
AND A HISTORY OF TAKING
POSITIONS THAT WON HIM
DEMOCRATIC SUPPORT.
BETWEEN 2003 AND 2005, COMEY
SERVED AS DEPUTY ATTORNEY
GENERAL IN THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
IN 2004, WHILE HIS BOSS JOHN
ASHCROFT WAS ILL, COMEY REFUSED
TO RE-AUTHORIZE THE
ADMINISTRATION'S PROGRAM OF
WARRANT-LESS WIRETAPPING.
THAT LED TO A CONFRONTATION WITH
WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF
ANDREW CARD, AND WHITE HOUSE
COUNSEL ALBERTO GONZALES AT
ASHCROFT'S HOSPITAL BEDSIDE.
COMEY RECOUNTED THE INCIDENT AT
A SENATE HEARING IN 2007.
>> I WAS VERY UPSET.
I WAS ANGRY.
I THOUGHT I JUST WITNESSED AN
EFFORT TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF A
VERY SICK MAN, WHO DID NOT HAVE
THE POWERS OF THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL BECAUSE THEY HAD BEEN
TRANSFERRED TO ME.
>> Woodruff: A YEAR LATER, COMEY
TRIED, UNSUCCESSFULLY, TO LIMIT
WATERBOARDING AND OTHER ENHANCED
INTERROGATION METHODS USED ON
TERROR SUSPECTS.
SINCE LEAVING THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT, HE'S SERVED AS A
CORPORATE ATTORNEY, FIRST AT
LOCKHEED MARTIN, AND LATER AT
THE HEDGE FUND BRIDGEWATER
ASSOCIATES.
THOSE TIES TO BUSINESS MAY RAISE
QUESTIONS FOR SOME.
IN A STATEMENT LAST NIGHT,
REPUBLICAN SENATOR CHUCK
GRASSLEY OF IOWA SAID:
COMEY IS ALSO SURE TO FACE
CONFIRMATION QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW
HE WOULD HANDLE LEAKS OF
SENSITIVE INFORMATION.
THE OBAMA JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IS
NOW UNDER SCRUTINY FOR ITS TOUGH
TACTICS WITH JOURNALISTS.
COMEY ADDRESSED THE SUBJECT IN A
SPEECH IN 2007.
>> TROOP MOVEMENTS, SEARCH
WARRANTS ABOUT TO BE EXECUTED,
THE UNDERCOVER IDENTIFY OF A
COVERT OPERATIVE WITH THE
C.I.A., SOME THINGS CAN'T LEAK.
THE FLIP SIDE OF THAT IS WHEN
THEY DO LEAK, THE GOVERNMENT HAS
TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
HAS TO.
BECAUSE WE CARE ABOUT THE RULE
OF LAW, WE CARE ABOUT SOME
>> Woodruff: IF HE IS NOMINATED
AND CONFIRMED, COMEY WOULD
REPLACE THE CURRENT F.B.I.
DIRECTOR ROBERT MUELLER, WHO
ASSUMED THE AGENCY'S TOP SPOT
JUST SEVEN DAYS BEFORE THE
SEPTEMBER 11TH ATTACKS.
SO, HOW WILL COMEY BE RECEIVED
ON CAPITOL HILL?
AND WHAT CHALLENGES LAY AHEAD
FOR THE F.B.I. AND THE
BELEAGUERED JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
UNDER ATTORNEY GENERAL
ERIC HOLDER?
WE TURN TO PHIL MATTINGLY OF
BLOOMBERG NEWS AND MICHAEL
SCHMIDT OF THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
PHIL MATTINGLY, WHY DID THE
PRESIDENT TURN TO JAMES COMEY
FROM THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION?
>> JAMES COMEY KIND OF CHECKS
ALL O BOXES.
HE'S' REPUBLICAN, A BUSH
APPOINTEE, BUT HE'S ONEARCHS WE
JUST HEARD, GAINED A LOT OF
RESPECT FROM DEMOCRATS DURING
HIS ROLE IN THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S ONE THAT'S GOING TO GET
SUPPORT FROM BOTH SIDES.
>> Woodruff: RICHARD NORTON MIC,
WHAT IS IT DID HIS RESUME AND
EXPERIENCE THAT QUALIFIES HIM
FOR THE JOB?
>> HE'S PRETTY MUCH DONE
EVERYTHING AT THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT.
HE PRODUCED MARTHA STEWART.
HE PROSECUTED TERRORISTS.
HE APPOINTED SOMEONE TO DO A
LEAK INVESTIGATION.
HE DEALT WITH SIGNIFICANT
NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUES BETWEEN
2003 AND 2005.
HE DID GUN CASES IN RICHMOND,
VIRGINIA, SO THERE'S A WHITE
SWATH OF THINGS AND IN ALL OF
THEM HE'S GOTTEN VERY HIGH
ACCOLADES.
IN SORT OF THE TEMPERATURE UP ON
CAPITOL HILL, HE'S SEEN AS
SOMEONE WHO WILL BE FAIRLY EASY
OR EASIER TO GET CONFIRMED.
>> Woodruff: PHIL MATTINGLY,
WHAT ABOUT HIS VIEWS-- WE HEARD
A LITTLE ABOUT THAT ON THE
CLIP-- HIS VIEWS ON CIVIL
LIBERTIES.
DO THEY SQUARE WITH THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION?
>> IT'S AN INTERESTING MIX.
WE HEARD FROM THE A.C.L.U., CAME
OUT WITH A STATEMENT JUST ABOUT
AN HOUR AGO, "LOOK, WE
UNDERSTAND HE'S VIEWED AS A
WHITE KNIGHT BY DEMOCRATS FOR
HIS WILLINGNESS TO STAND UP TO
SENIOR BUSH OFFICIALS.
HOW MUCH, HE SIGNED OFF ON A
NUMBER OF THE PROGRAMS PRESIDENT
BUSH USED TO COUNTER TERRORISM.
ITIS SPLIT THE DIFFERENCE TYPE
ISSUE.
I THINK THE IMPORTANT THING
YOU'LL SEE FROM THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, THE IMPORTANT
PITCH TO CAPITOL HILL WITH HIS
NOMINATION IS, LOOK, ON SOME OF
THE MOZ EGREGIOUS OF FROMS,
JAMES COMEY WAS WILLING TO STAND
FIRM, TO STAND UP TO MOST SENIOR
OFFICIALS AND REALLY TAKE A
STAND FOR CIVIL LIBERTIES
DESPITE SOME OF THE PROGRAMS HE
SIGNED OFF ON.
>> Woodruff: HOW UNUSUAL WAS
IT FOR THE DEPUTY CONTINUAL TO
STAND UP TO THE WHITE HOUSE
COUNSEL, THE WHITE HOUSE CHIEF
OF STAFF?
>> I THINK WHAT HE WAS DOING
THERE HE'S GOTTEN CREDIT FOR IS
STANDING UP FOR THE LAW IN THE
FACE OF POLITICS.
I'M SRE TUHERE HAVE BEEN A LOT
OF EXAMPLES OF IT BUT I'M NOT
SURE THERE WAS ONE WHERE IT
DEFINED SOMEONE'S CAREER AS MUCH
AS HIS.
I'M NOT SURE IF WE WOULD BE
TALKING ABOUT A NOMINATION FOR
HIM TODAY IF THE STORY HAD NOT
COME OUT.
IT GIVES HIM A BIPARTISAN FEEL
THAT'S VERY IMPORTANT THAN
CERTAINLY THE OTHER PERSON WHO
WAS CONSIDERED FOR THE JOB--
LISA MONACO, WHO WORKED AT THE
WHITE HOUSE-- AND PRETTY MUCH
ANYBODY ELSE.
THERE'S SOMETHING DIFFERENT
ABOUT HIM THAT DISTINGUISHES
HIM.
>> Woodruff: WE SHOULD SAY,
THERE HAS NOT BEEN AN
ANNOUNCEMENT.
IT'S OUT THERE IN THE MEDIA,
IT'S EXPECTED BB BUT WE DON'T
KNOW FOR SURERIC HOLDER REACHEDS
ORGANIZATIONS, AMID THE
CONTROVERSY OF HOW AGGRESSIVE
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IS, GOING
AFTER REPORTERS AND
INVESTIGATING GOVERNMENT LEAKS,
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
WHY DO THEY WANT THESE MEETINGS
TODAY WITH NEWS ORGANIZATION
EXECUTIVES?
>> THIS IS ATTORNEY GENERAL
HOLDER, AND THIS IS ACTUALLY AT
THE REQUEST THE PRESIDENT OBAMA.
THIS IS HIS EFFORT TO REACH OUT.
PEOPLE FAMILIAR WITH THIS AT THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT THERE HAS
BEEN A SENSE MAYBE ON THE LEAK
INVESTIGATIONS, THERE MIGHT HAVE
BEEN SOME OVER-REACH.
THERE ARE AT LEAST SOME ISSUES
THAT THEY WISH WOULD HAVE GONE A
LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT OR AT LEAST
APPEARED A LITTLE DIFFERENT.
HE'S REACHING OUT IN AN EFFORT
TO START A DIALOGUE FOR THIS
REVIEW ORDERED BY PRESIDENT
OBAMA.
THE MEDIA ORGANIZATION REACTION
HAS BEEN MIXED.
THINGS TO BE OFF THE RECORD.
SEVERAL ORGANIZATIONS HAVE SAID
IF IT'S NOT ON THE RECORD WE
DON'T WANT TO DO IT.
WHAT YOU'RE SEEING IS THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT REACHING OUT
AND NOT GET, THE RESPONSE THEY
WANTED BUT IT'S THE START OF A
PROCESS.
>> WE KNOW THE EDITOR OF THE
"NEW YORK TIMES" SAID THEY WILL
NOT PARTICIPATE IN A MEETING
THEY WERE INVITED TO.
>> ALL WE KNOW IS THE MEETING IS
GOING ON-- WAS GOING ON THIS
AFTER DISPRKS BEYOND THAT,
NOTHING ELSE HAS REALLY COME
OUT.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE SORT OF WAITING,
LIKE EVERYONE ELSE.
>> Woodruff: WHY-- IS THERE A
SENSE-- MICHAEL SCHMIDT-- THAT
JUSTICE, THAT OFFICIALS AT
JUSTICE, WHEN IT'S THE CONTINUAL
OR PEOPLE AROUND HIM OR FOR THAT
MATTER THE WHITE HOUSE ARE NOW
REGRETTING HAPPENED WITH THESE
EPISODES, GO AFTER THE AP, GOING
AFTER THE REPORTER AT FOX NEWS?
>> YEAH, I MEAN, IT CERTAINLY
EYE I DON'T THINK YOU WOULD HAVE
SEEN WHAT WAS GOING TO GO ON
TODAY IN THAT TYPE OF MEETING IF
THESE THINGS HADN'TOME C OUT.
SO THERE'S CERTAINLY AN EFFORT
TO REACH OUT AND TO TRY TO
ASSUAGE SOME OF THE FEARS ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING ON.
WILL THAT HAVE ANY IMPACT OR HOW
SERIOUSLY WILL BE TAKEN I THINK
REMAINS TO BE SEEN.
IT REMAINS MIXED AT BEST SO FAR.
>> Woodruff: PHIL MATTINGLY,
WHAT IS THE SENSE WHY THE
CONTINUAL HAS MANAGED TO
ENGENDER SOME REALLY TOUGH
CRITICISM AIMED IN HIS
DIRECTION.
NOT JUST FROM REPUBLICANS BUT
NOW THE NUDE MEDIA, AND EVEN
SOME DEMOCRATS.
>DEMOCRATS.
>> AS YOU KNOW, HE'S GOT
PRESSURE FROM CAPITOL HILL.
WHAT DIFFERENTIATE WHO'S GOING
ON RIGHT NOW IS YOU'VE GOT
DEMOCRATS.
YOU HAVE LIBERAL COMMENTATORS CS
WHO ARE COME OUT AND REALLY NOT
ONLY QUESTIONING HIS ROLE IN THE
LEAK INVESTIGATIONS BUT ACTUALLY
ASKING FOR HIM TO STEP DOWN OR
ASKING FOR HIM TO AT LEAST
CONSIDER THAT PROCESS.
I THINK WHAT YOU'RE SEEING OUT
OF HIS OFFICE RIGHT NOW AND OUT
OF THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT WHY
THEY'RE REACHING OUT, WHY
THEY'RE INVOLVED IN THIS VIEW.
THEY'RE GRASPING THE ENORMOUS OF
WHAT OCCURRED HERE, AND THING
TRIER TRYING TO ADDRESS IT
PERFECT IT BECOMES A BIGGER
ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: WHAS YOT'UR
SENSE, HOW THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
HAS MANAGED TO DRAW SO MUCH
ATTENTION, AND A LOT OF IT NOT
POSITIVE.
>> HE SEEMS TO GET THE MOST
CRITICISM OUT OF ALL OF THE
CABINET SECRETARIES, AND IT
SEEMS TO HAPPEN EVERYONE FEW
MONTHS AND SEVERAL TIMES A YEAR
WHERE THERE'S SOMETHING LIKE
THIS THAT BLOWS UP.
SO IT MAKES YOU WONDER WHAT HE'S
DOING AND WHY HE'S NOT MAYBE
BEING PROACTIVE ENOUGH TO HAVE--
TO TRY AND KNOCK SOME OF THESE
THINGS DOWN.
CERTAINLY THE OTHER SECRETARIES
TEAL WITH CONTROVERSIAL THINGS
LIKE THIS AND PROBABLY THE
CONTINUAL IS ONE OF THE MOST
CONTROVERSIAL, BUT HE DOESN'T
SEEM TO BE ABLE TO FEND IT OFF
THE THE WAY THAT THE OTHERS DO.
MAYBE HE'S TOO ALOOF.
I'M NOT SURE.
I WAS TALKING TO ONE SENIOR
GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL TODAY WHO
SAID EARLY ON IN "FAST AND
FURIOUS" THERE WAS-- HE HAD A
LOT OF TROUBLE SORT OF PUSHING
BACK ON THAT, AND THAT ALLOWED
IT TO SNOWBALL AND BECOME THIS
SORT OF REPUBLICAN ISSUE THAT
THEY'VE USED AGAINST HOLDER AND
THE WHITE HOUSE.
>> Woodruff: QUICKLY, FINALLY,
PHIL MATTINGLY, CONNECTION
BETWEEN THE DIFFICULTIES
HOLDER'S HAVING AND THE CHOICE
OF COMB?
>> I THINK THIS DECISION WAS
MADE REALLY BEFORE ALL OF THIS
STUFF BLEW UP, IS MY
UNDERSTANDING FROM TALKING TO
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.
I THINK THE IDEA-- THE TIMING OF
IT DOESN'T HURT, AND CERTAINLY
GOING AFTER A BIPARTISAN PICK
LIKE THIS, IF NOTHING ELSE
TSHIFTS THE NARRATIVE FAIR DAY
OR TWO AND CERTAINLY WHEN JAMES
COMEY IS ON THE HILL, WHENEVER
THAT DOES OCCUR, I THINK THAT
LOOKS BETTER FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION THAN HAVING ERIC
HOLDER TRYING TO FEND OFF ISSUES
WITH LEAK INVESTIGATIONS.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, WE WANT TO
STRESS THERE HAS NOT BEEN A
NOMINATION YET.
BUT A LOT OF NEWS REPORTS THAT
POINT IN THAT DIRECTION.
PHIL MATTINGLY, MICHAEL SCHMIDT,
I THANK YOU BOTH.
>> Brown: NOW, THE FIRST IN AN
OCCASIONAL SERIES OF STORIES
ABOUT LONG-TERM CARE.
WITH BABY BOOMERS AGING AND
LIVING LONGER, MORE PEOPLE WILL
NEED IT.
BUT NEW RESEARCH HAS SHOWN MOST
AMERICANS HAVE DONE LITTLE OR
NOTHING TO PLAN FOR THESE
SITUATIONS THAT CAN CARRY A
HEAVY EMOTIONAL AND ECONOMIC
TOLL.
WE'RE CALLING OUR SERIES "TAKING
CARE."
RAY SUAREZ KICKS IT OFF WITH THE
STORY OF ONE FAMILY'S STRUGGLE
WITH A DEBILITATING DISEASE.
>> THIS IS MY MOTHER MARY
ELIZABETH WYANT.
SHE IS 74 YEARS OLD AND WAS
DIAGNOSED WITH ALZHEIMERS AT THE
AGE OF 65.
SHE IS A RETIRED PROFESSIONAL
ARTIST AND A FORMER PROFESSOR AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA.
MY NAME IS REBECCA WYANT AND I'M
HER YOUNGEST DAUGHTER AND HER
PRIMARY CAREGIVER AND GUARDIAN.
>> Reporter: IT'S BEEN NINE
YEARS SINCE MARY WYANT WAS FIRST
DIAGNOSED WITH ALZHEIMERS.
IN 2006 SHE MOVED IN WITH HER
DAUGHTER, MAKING REBECCA PART OF
A GROWING POPULATION OF
AMERICANS, NOW NEARLY ONE IN
FIVE ADULTS, WHO PROVIDE UNPAID
CARE FOR FAMILY MEMBERS OVER THE
AGE OF 50.
REBECCA SAYS HER MOTHER USED TO
BE A FUN-LOVING AND VIBRANT
ARTIST, WHO WAS ALWAYS AT THE
CENTER OF ATTENTION.
>> VERY CREATIVE, VERY OUTGOING,
VERY GREGARIOUS, VERY MUCH A
SOCIAL BUTTE AED
TO BE AROUND PEOPLE.
SHE COULD TAKE NOTHING AND
CREATE SOMETHING MAGNIFICENT
FROM THAT, SO VERY SMART BUT
MORE THAN ANYTHING IT WAS JUST
HER ENERGY AND SOCIAL SKILLS AND
HER ABILITY TO ENGAGE WITH
PEOPLE, WITH ANYBODY.
>> Reporter: TODAY THAT MARY
STILL COMES OUT FROM TIME TO
TIME, BUT OFTEN IT'S SEEN ONLY
IN SHORT SPURTS AND CAN BE
FOLLOWED BY RAPID MOOD SWINGS,
INCOHERENT OUTBURSTS AND BLANK
STARES.
MARY EXHIBITS ALL THE SYMPTOMS
OF WHAT THE ALZHEIMERS
ASSOCIATION HAS CALLED THE
DEFINING DISEASE OF BABY BOOMERS
WITH TEN MILLION IN THAT AGE
GROUP EXPECTED TO DEVELOP THIS
FORM OF DEMENTIA IN THE COMING
YEARS.
JEANETTE WENDT IS MARY'S
NEUROLOGIST.
>> SHE HAS SEVERE LANGUAGE
DIFFICULTIES AND HAS VERY SEVERE
MEMORY PROBLEMS AND REALLY HAS
THE INABILITY TO TAKE CARE OF
HERSELF.
>> Reporter: MOVING TO TUCSON
WAS A HOMECOMING OF SORTS FOR
MARY, WHO HAD RAISED HER
DAUGHTERS THERE, BUT HAD BEEN
LIVING IN CENTRAL AMERICA WITH
HER SECOND HUSBAND.
WHEN THE MARRIAGE FELL APART,
REBECCA BECAME MARY'S LEGAL
GUARDIAN AND HER PRIMARY
CAREGIVER.
REBECCA IS NOW ON CALL FROM THE
MOMENT MARY WAKES UP EVERY
MORNING.
GETTING HER MOTHER OUT OF BED
AND DRESSED.
AND THEN HELPING TO BRUSH HER
TEETH, COMBING HER HAIR AND
FIGURING OUT NEW STRATEGIES FOR
MEDICATION.
>> COME ON, DON'T CHOKE ON THIS.
>> Reporter: IT CAN BE STRESSFUL
AND DIFFICULT.
>> I MEAN, IT'S A 115 POUND TWO-
YEAR-OLD WHO IS NOT POTTY
TRAINED.
>> Reporter: EVEN AWKWARD AT
TIMES IN PUBLIC.
>> PEOPLE STILL WHEN THEY TALK
TO HER SPEAK IN A VERY LOUD
VOICE BECAUSE THEY THINK PEOPLE
WITH ALZHEIMERS CAN'T HEAR.
OR THEY SPEAK VERY SLOWLY AND I
TRY AND EXPLAIN TO THEM SHE'S
NOT UNDERSTANDING WHAT YOU ARE
SAYING SO YOU DON'T HAVE TO
WORRY ABOUT THAT, I MEAN, JUST
SPEAK IN YOUR NORMAL VOICE AND
JUST GO WITH THE FLOW, BUT IT'S
VERY UNCOMFORTABLE FOR A LOT OF
PEOPLE BECAUSE THEY DON'T
UNDERSTAND THE DISEASE.
>> Reporter: BUT REBECCA SAYS
PEOPLE NEED TO UNDERSTAND THAT
HER FAMILY'S SITUATION, ALL OF
IT, IS NORMAL.
AND NOT WITHOUT SPECIAL MOMENTS.
>> EVERY NOW AND THEN SHE'LL-- I
DON'T KNOW WHAT SPARKS IN HER
MIND-- BUT SHE'LL JUST SAY,
"OH," AND SHE'LL TURN AND SHE'LL
LOOK AT ME AND SHE HAS SOMETHING
TO SAY TO ME.
YOU CAN JUST SEE IT IN HER FACE
AND THEN IT'S GONE BUT FOR THAT
MOMENT YOU JUST KNOW I KNOW
SHE'S STILL IN THERE.
SO WHEN SHE MANAGES TO LET A
LITTLE BIT OF THAT OUT THAT'S
WONDERFUL.
>> Reporter: REBECCA, WHO OWNS A
SELF-SERVE DOG WASH AND RETAIL
BUSINESS, BRINGS MARY TO WORK
WHERE SHE'LL STAY UNTIL THE SHOP
CLOSES IN THE EVENING.
IT'S ROUND-THE-CLOCK CARE THAT
REBECCA SAYS SHE WAS WILLING TO
TAKE ON FOR ONE SIMPLE REASON.
TAKE CARE OF HER AND PROVIDE
>> NOBODY UNDERSTANDS MY MOTHER
THE WAY I DO AND SOMEONE CAN
TAKE CARE OF HER AND PROVIDE
SUSTENANCE BUT NO ONE CAN TAKE
CARE OF MY MOTHER THE WAY I DO.
>> Reporter: AND HER EXPERIENCES
WILL LIKELY BE SHARED BY
MILLIONS IN THE COMING DECADES.
THE NUMBER OF AMERICANS 65 AND
OLDER IS EXPECTED TO MORE THAN
DOUBLE IN THE NEXT 40-YEARS, DUE
IN LARGE PART TO AGING BABY
BOOMERS.
THE GOVERNMENT ESTIMATES 70% OF
THOSE OVER THE AGE OF 65 WILL
NEED SOME FORM OF LONG-TERM
CARE.
BUT A RECENT POLL CONDUCTED BY
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS AND THE
NATIONAL OPINION RESEARCH CENTER
FOUND NEARLY TWO-THIRDS OF
AMERICANS OVER THE AGE OF 40
HAVE DONE LITTLE OR NO PLANNING
FOR THEIR POTENTIAL LONG-TERM
CARE NEEDS, SUCH AS SETTING
ASIDE MONEY OR TALKING WITH
FAMILY MEMBERS ABOUT HOW THEY
WANT TO BE CARED FOR.
THAT SURVEY WAS FUNDED BY THE
SCAN FOUNDATION, WHICH IS A
"NEWSHOUR" UNDERWRITER.
AGAIN, DOCTOR JEANETTE WENDT.
>> THE VAST MAJORITY HAVE NOT
THOUGHT ABOUT IT AND HAVE NOT
MADE PLANS EVEN IF THEY HAVE AN
INKLING OR THEY EVEN IN THEIR
HEART KNOW THAT'S WHAT'S GOING
ON, THEY DON'T WANT TO ADDRESS
IT WITH THE PERSON WHO HAS THE
PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: AND UNTIL IT BECAME
CLEAR MARY WOULD NEED LONG-TERM
CARE, THE WYANTS HADN'T
DIUSSESCD THE SUBJECT EITHER.
>> THERE WAS REALLY NO LONG TERM
PLANNING.
IT WAS RIGHT NOW WHAT DO WE HAVE
TO DO.
RIGHT NOW, SOMEONE'S GOT TO BE
HER GUARDIAN BECAUSE I'VE GOT TO
HAVE THE ABILITY TO MAKE
DECISIONS FOR HER ON ANY LEVEL
AND WE DIDN'T WANT TO WAIT UNTIL
GOTIT SO BAD.
>> Reporter: THE ISSUES AROUND
AGING ARE EASY TO IGNORE AND
OFTEN DIFFICULT TO TALK ABOUT
AND ADDRESS, BUT COMMUNITIES
AROUND THE COUNTRY, INCLUDING
TUCSON, HAVE LONG HAD FEDERALLY
FUNDED PROGRAMS THAT ARE
SUPPOSED TO HELP PEOPLE LIKE THE
WYANTS.
IN 1965 CONGRESS PASSED THE
"OLDER AMERICANS ACT" WHICH
PROVIDED FOR THE CREATION OF A
NATIONAL NETWORK OF AGENCIES ON
AGING TO SUPPORT COMMUNITY
SOCIAL SERVICES FOR OLDER
PEOPLE.
TUCSON'S PIMA COUNCIL ON AGING
IS ONE WITH CAREGIVER
SPECIALISTS LIKE SUZY BOURQUE.
>> OFTEN PEOPLE WILL COME IN FOR
A PARENT BUT THEN THEY'LL THINK
OKAY THIS TELLS ME I NEED TO DO
MY OWN POWER OF ATTORNEY I NEED
TO THINK ABOUT HOW I'M GOING TO
PAY FOR LONG TERM CARE.
MOST PEOPLE THEY NEED TO THINK
ABOUT THE FACT THAT WHATEVER
CARE THEY MAY DEVELOP A NEED FOR
IS GOING TO BE VERY COSTLY.
>> Reporter: BOURQUE ALSO
CONNECTS CAREGIVERS TO EXPERTS
AND SERVICES AND REBECCA HAS
CONTACTED THE AGENCY SEVERAL
TIMES WITH BASIC QUESTIONS.
BUT LIKE MANY ORGANIZATIONS
DEALING WITH BUDGET CUTS, THIS
ONE TOO HAS HAD TO CUT BACK ON
HOW MANY PEOPLE IT SERVES.
>> THE POPULATION OF THE OVER 60
IN TUCSON HAS GREATLY INCREASED
SO WE'RE NOT MEETING THE NEED
EVEN AS WELL AS WE DID 20 YEARS
AGO.
>> Reporter: THAT MEANS
CAREGIVERS LIKE REBECCA WYANT
OFTEN MUST NAVIGATE A
COMPLICATED AND OPAQUE HEALTH
CARE SYSTEM PRACTICALLY ALONE.
REBECCA HAD BEEN PAYING FOR
MARY'S CARE WITH HER OWN
EARNINGS AND HER MOTHERS ASSETS.
BUT WHEN MARY'S MONEY WAS GONE.
SHE QUALIFIED FOR FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE THROUGH ARIZONA'S
LONG-TERM CARE PROGRAM, BUT THE
ENROLLMENT PROCESS TOOK SEVERAL
YEARS.
NOW THE STATE PAYS REBECCA FOR
SOME OF THE TIME SHE SPENDS
LOOKING AFTER HER MOTHER: 14
HOURS EACH WEEK OR ROUGHLY $500-
A MONTH.
IT'S A SMALL AMOUNT, BUT MONEY
REBECCA SAYS SHE IS IMMENSELY
GRATEFUL FOR.
>> I DON'T HAVE BENEFITS THAT I
RECEIVE FROM AN EMPLOYER.
IF THE BUSINESS MAKES SOME MONEY
THAT DOESN'T NECESSARILY COME TO
ME, IT GOES BACK INTO THE
BUSINESS SO ANY LITTLE BIT
HELPS.
>> Reporter: BUT LONG-TERM CARE
DOESN'T JUST EXHAUST FINANCIAL
RESOURCES.
DR. WENDT IS CONCERNED THAT LIKE
MANY FULL-TIME CAREGIVERS,
REBECCA MAY BE PUTTING HER OWN
HEALTH AT RISK.
>> SHE'S A GREAT CAREGIVER BUT I
THINK SHE IS AT GREAT RISK OF
BURNOUT BECAUSE YOU KNOW, IT'S
24 HOURS A DAY, SEVEN DAYS A
WEEK.
YOU NEVER KNOW WHAT THEY ARE
GOING TO DO IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
NIGHT, YOU NEVER KNOW IF THEY
ARE GOING TO GET UP AND TRY TO
LEAVE THE HOUSTURN THE
STOVE ON AND TRY TO MAKE
SOMETHING, BURN THE HOUSE DOWN.
I MEAN, IT'S REALLY ALWAYS ON
EDGE AND SO IT'S EXTREMELY
STRESSFUL.
>> Reporter: REBECCA, AS A SMALL
BUSINESS OWNER, HAS BEEN UNABLE
TO FIND AFFORDABLE HEALTH
INSURANCE THAT COULD HELP HER
MANAGE THE PHYSICAL AND
EMOTIONAL TOLL.
AND SHE SAYS SHE ALSO DOESN'T
HAVE THE MONEY TO PUT HER MOTHER
INTO A LONG-TERM CARE FACILITY
SHE WOULD BE COMFORTABLE WITH.
EVEN SO, SHE'S HAPPY TO STILL
HAVE MARY AT HOME.
>> IT'S NOT ALWAYS PERFECT BUT
SHE'S MY MOTHER AND YOU CAN'T
DWELL WHAT WAS OR WHAT MIGHT BE.
IT'S WHAT IT IS TODAY AND SO
SHE'S ALIVE, SHE'S FUNCTIONING,
SHE'S GETTING UP, SHE'S MOVING
AROUND, SHE HAS HAPPY MOMENTS
AND NOT SO HAPPY MOMENTS BUT
IT'S NOT A SAD SITUATION.
>> Reporter: REBECCA PLANS TO
TAKE CARE OF MARY FOR AS LONG AS
SHE POSSIBLY CAN, EVEN IF SHE
HAS TO SELL HER BUSINESS TO DO
IT.
>> Brown: ONLINE, SEE HOW
ALZHEIMER'S HAS AFFECTED MARY
WYANT'S ART WORK.
WE HAVE A MULTIMEDIA SLIDESHOW
FROM THE PAINTER.
AND HOW DO YOU RECOGNIZE THE
EARLY WARNING SIGNS OF
ALZHEIMER'S?
WE HAVE MORE INFORMATION ON OUR
HEALTH PAGE.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, A CHINESE
COMPANY MADE THE BIGGEST PLAY
YET FOR A U.S. COMPANY IN A BID
FOR VIRGINIA'S SMITHFIELD FOODS.
CHINA'S APPETITE FOR PORK KEEPS
GROWING AND GROWING: IT'S NOW
THE LARGEST MARKET FOR PORK
PRODUCTS IN THE WORLD.
>> WHEN I WAS YOUNG, MY FAMILY
COULD ONLY AFFORD TO HAVE PORK
ONCE OR TWICE A YEAR.
WE WERE POOR AND OUR CLOTHES
WERE COVERED WITH TCHEPAS.
>> Woodruff: WITH INCREASING
PROSPERITY AND MORE CONSUMPTION
OF LUXURY GOODS ACRS CHOSINA,
MEAT CONSUMPTION HAS QUADRUPLED
OVER THE PAST 30 YEARS.
NOW, CHINA'S LARGEST MEAT
PROCESSOR SHUANGHUI KNOWN AS
"SHINE-WAY" IN THE WESTERN WORLD
HAS TURNED TO THE WORLD'S
LARGEST PORK PRODUCER.
>> SMITHFIELD POUCH PACK, A NEW
WAY TO LOVE BACON.
>> Woodruff: SHINE-WAY IS
OFFERING TO BUY SMITHFIELD FOODS
FOR $4.7 BILLION.
SMITHFIELD IS HEADQUARTERED IN
SMITHFIELD, VIRGINIA RIGHT
OUTSIDE NORFOLK.
IT'S BEEN A FAMILY-OWNED COMPANY
SINCE 1936 AND SOME SMITHFIELD
WORKERS SAID YESTERDAY THEY WANT
TO KEEP IT THAT WAY.
CURTIS BOND APPEALED TO C.E.O.
C. LARRY POPE.
>> WE WORK HARD, HELP BUILD THIS
COMPANY FROM THE GROUND UP, A
LONG TIME AGO, THERE WERE OTHER
GENERATIONS.,
THINK ABOUT IT A LITTLE MORE,
GIVE US SOME THOUGHT.
>> Woodruff: LOCALS IN
SMITHFIELD ALSO EXPRESSED WORRY
ABOUT LOSING JOBS IF THE COMPANY
IS SOLD.
>> YOU KNOW HOW IT IS WITH
MERGERS, NEXT THING THERE WILL
BE LAYOFFS, THEN THEY'LL BE
MOVING THE HEADQUARTERS.
>> Woodruff: BUT SMITHFIELD
C.E.O. POPE SAYS IF ANYTHING,
THE DEAL WILL CREATE JOBS; AND
HE DISMISSES ANY FEARS OF
CHINESE MEAT FLOODING THE
U.S.
>> Woodruff: IT'S NOT A DONE
DEAL: SMITHFIELD SAYS RIVAL BIDS
MAY STILL COME FROM COMPANIES IN
BRAZIL AND THAILAND.MEAN BOTH HE
TURN TO TWO ECONOMISTS WHO
FOLLOW THESE MATTERS.
STEVE MEYER IS PRESIDENT OF
PARAGON ECONOMICS, AN
AGRICULTURAL MARKETS ANALYSIS
FIRM.
HE FORMERLY SERVED AS DIRECTOR
OF ECONOMICS FOR THE NATIONAL
PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL.
AND THILO HANEMANN TRACKS
CHINESE GLOBAL INVESTMENT AT THE
RHODIUM GROUP, AN ECONOMIC
RESEARCH FIRM.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
THILO HANEMANN, TO YOU FIRST,
WHY WOULD THE CHINESE BE
INTERESTED IN SMITHFIELD?
>> RIGHT.
THE SMITHFIELD-SHUANGHUI
TRANSACTION IS QUITE
REPRESENTATIVE FOR A COMMON
MOTIVE WE SEE FOR CHINESE
ACQUISITIONS IN THE'S WHICH IS
NOT PRIMARILY TO EXPAND SPOT
U.S. MARKET BUT BECOMING MORE
COMPETITIVE IN THE FAST-GROWING
HOME MARKET.
AS THE CLIP SHOWED, PORK
CONSUMPTION IS STILL GROWING AT
VERY FAST RATES BACK IN CHINA
BUT THERE ARE TREMENDOUS
PROBLEMS WITH THE FOOD SAFETY
THERE.
BY ACQUIRING A COMPANY IN THE
U.S., SHUANGHUI HOPES TO TAP
SPOT QUALITY CONTROL EXPERTISE
OF THAT COMPANY, TRANSFERRING
SOME OF THAT BACK TO THE CHINESE
INFRASTRUCTURE AND USING AN
AMERICAN HOUSEHOLD BRAND NAME TO
TOICATE CATER TO DOMESTIC
CHINESE CONSUMERS.
>> Woodruff: STEVE MEYER,
RIGHT NOW, WHAT PORTION OF THE
WORLD-- MEAT MARKET, PORK
MARKET-- DOES SMITHFIELD HAVE?
>> WELL, SMITHFIELD FOODS IS THE
LARGEST PRODUCER IN THE WORLD OF
PORK FOR EXPHOGZ PORK.
THEY HAVE A MARKET SHARE ON THE
PROCESSING SIDE SOMEWHERE AROUND
24%, 25% IN THE UNITED STATES.
THEY HAVE ABOUT 16% OF THE U.S.
BREEDING HERD.
BUT WE NEED TO REMEMBER THIS THE
U.S. PIG INDUSTRY, THOUGH LARGE
AND IMPORTANT, IS A FRACTION OF
WHAT IS IN CHINA.
THEY HAVE 10 TIMES AS MANY
PICION AS WE HAVE, IN CHINA.
SO IT'S A VERY LARGE MARKET
ALREADY.
IT'S GROWING BECAUSE OF THOSE
INCOME FACTORS THAT YOU'VE CITED
EARLIER.
AND PEOPLE THERE LOVE PORK.
AS THEY GET MORE MONEY THEY'RE
GOING TO IMPRIEWCH THEIR DIETS
AND ADD MORE MEAT PROTEIN TO
THOSE DIETS.
>> Woodruff: IS THERE A ROLE--
IN LISTENING TO THIS BEFORE WE
GET MUCH FURTHER ON THE QUESTION
OF MEAT AND PORK, I WANT TO COME
BACK TO YOU, THILO HANEMANN,
DOES THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT PLAY
A ROLE IN ALL OF THIS?
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT?
>> WELL, PEOPLE ALWAYS HAVE THAT
UNDERSTANDING THAT CHINESE
INVESTMENT IS ALL GOVERNMENT
DIRECTED AND PART OF A GRANDER
STRATEGY.
BUT I THINK THE TRU ISTH
ACTUALLY QUITE THE OPPOSITE.
RESTRICTIONS ON THE GOVERNMENT
SIDE ARE A MAJOR FACTOR WHY
WE'RE ONLY SEEING THIS
INVESTMENT HAPPENING NOW AND NOT
EARLIER BECAUSE THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT HAD IMPOSED VERY
STRICT CONTROLS ON THE OUTFLOW
OF CAPITAL, AND ONLY RECENTLY
THE REGIME OF CAPITAL OUTFLOWS
HAS BEEN REFORMED.
I THINK THEY'RE PLAYING A MORE
SUPPORTIVE ROLE IN RETRACTING
FROM THAT FIELD AND LETTING
CHINESE COMPANIES DO THOSE
FLOABL DEALS.
I THINK THE INFLUENCE OF THE
GOVERNMENT IS FAIRLY LOW.
>> Woodruff: SO THIS IS A
COMPANY THAT SEEMS TO BE MOVING
BECAUSE IT THINKS IT'S A GOOD
MOVE.
STEVE MEYER, WHAT DOES THIS
BRING TO SHUANGHUI, THE CHINESE
COMPANY FIT WERE ABLE TO PULL
OFF THIS MERGER?
>> WELL, I THIN TO SUPPORT
WHAT THILO SAID A WHILE AGO,
THIS IS AN ISSUE OF THEM
ACCESSING A CONSISTENT SUPPLY OF
THE UNITED STATES PORK
PRODUCTION DOESN'T CHANGE MUCH
FROM YEAR TO YEAR.
WE HAVE BEEN ON A STEADY UPTREND
FOR MANY YEARS.
A CONSISTENT SUPPLY OF
HIGH-QUALITY, WHOLESOME
PRODUCTS, CHINA HAS HAD TROUBLE
WITH THEIR SUPPLY CHAIN IN THE
PAST.
THEY HAVE ENDEMIC DISEASE
PROBLEMS THAT HAVE CAUSED DEATHS
AMONG PICION THERE.
I THINK THE BIG THING IS ACCESS
TO THE SUPPLY.
ACCESS TO PROFESSIONALISM AND
EXPERTISE OF THE SMITHFIELD FOOD
STAFF AND MANAGEMENT.
>> Woodruff: AND FROM THE
AMERICAN PERSPECTIVE, STAYING
WITH YOU, STEVE MEYER, WHAT
SHOULD THE CONCERNS BE?
WE HEARD THE WORKERS AT
SMITHFIELD SAYING THEY'RE
WORRIED ABOUT THEIR JOBS.
WE KNOW TODAY, WE TALKED TO
OTHER FOLKS IN THE VETERINARY
IMMEDIATE FIELD WHO SAY THERE
ARE CONCERNS ABOUT SAFETY
DOWNTOWN ROAD, ESPECIALLY IF THE
COMPANY WERE TO TAKE ALL THE
PROCESSING TO CHINA.
>> WELL, I MEAN, THAT'S-- I
GUESS THAT'S ALWAYS A
POSSIBILITY.
AT THIS POINT, I THINK YOU HAVE
TO TAKE THEM AT THEIR WORD THAT
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO MAKE ANY
BIG CHANGE.
THIS IS A SUCCESSFUL COMPANY.
THERE ARE NOT A LOT OF REASONS
TO TOY WITH THIS THING.
SOME OF THE FEARS THAT HAVE BEEN
EXPRESSED, IS THE FOOD SAFETY.
WE ARE NOT GOING TO BE IMPORTING
CHINESE PRODUCT.
THEY'RE GOING TO TAKE OUR
PRODUCT TO THEIR MARKET, NOT
BRING IT HERE.
I DON'T THINK FOOD SAFETY IS AN
ISSUE.
IT DOESN'T CHANGE THE STRUBTERAL
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE U.S. PORK
PRODUCTION OR PROCESSING
SECTORS.
IT DOESN'T CHANGE THE AMOUNT OF
VERTICAL INTEGRATION THAT'S
HERE.
I DON'T SEE A NEGATIVE FOR THE
U.S. PORK INDUSTRY.
I THINK IT IS POSITIVE BECAUSE I
THINK IT WILL HELP GROW OUR
EXPORTPORTS TO CHINE AND PROVIDE
POSSIBILITIES FOR OTHER
PRODUCERS AND PROCESSORS IN THE
UNITED STATES TO INCREASE THEIR
PRODUCTION, AND TO KEEP OUR
DOMESTIC PRICES AT SOME
COMPETITIVE EQUILIBRIUM LIKE IT
HAS IN THE PAST.
SLOAPGZ OUR PRODUCERS ARE
ALLOWED TO RESPOND TO THE
MARKET.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE
CONCERNS WE'RE HEARING FROM
FOLKS IN THE U.S., WHETHER
THEY'RE WORRIED ABOUT JOBS.
WHETHER THEY'RE WORRIED ABOUT
FOOD SAFETY, MARKET SHARE, AND
SO FORTH.
>> RIGHT, I VERY MUCH SUPPORT
WHAT STEVE JUST SAID.
I THINK IF YOU LOOK AT THE DEAL
AND ITS COMMERCIAL LOGIC, WHAT
THE CHINESE COMPANY IS REALLY
INTERESTED IN IS THE SUPPLY
CHAIN, AND THE "MADE IN THE
U.S." BRAND.
IT WOULD BE VERY FOOLISH OF THEM
TO SELL A LOCAL OPERATION.
IT WILL CERTAINLY PRING SOME OF
THE EXPERTISE BACK AND ASK THE
MANAGEMENT TEAM AND THE
EXPERIENCED STAFF THAT THEY HAVE
TO STREAMLINE SOME OF THE
DOMESTIC VALUE CHAINS AND
DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS.
BUT I THINK OVERALL, THE CHINESE
UMP AND CERTAINLY, ALSO, ITS
CHINESE GOVERNMENT, WILL SEE
THIS AS A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION
TO DOMESTIC FOOD SECURITY AND
EFFICIENCY.
>> Woodruff: STEVE MYER WHAT
ABOUT JUST THE IDEA, A BIG PART
OF THE AMERICAN MEAT, PORK
BUSINESS COULD BE FOREIGN OWNED?
>> WELL, THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
AMERICANS-- YOU KNOW, WE HAVE TO
DECIDE OUR COMFORT LEVEL WITH
THAT.
IT IS NOT THE FIRST TIME THIS
HAPPENED.
IN THE 70S AND 80s WE FEARED
THE JAPANESE WOULD BUY THE WHOLE
COUNTRY.
THEY OWNED PEBBLE BEACH.
MY GOODNESS, THAT'S A SERIOUS
DEAL.
BEFORE THAT IT WAS THE ARAB
COUNTRIES.
WE DO HAVE TO BE COMFORTABLE
WITH THAT AND WHILE THERE'S A
COMMITTEE THAT WILL REVIEW THIS.
I DON'T SEE NATIONAL SECURITY
ISSUES.
THERE HAVE BEEN CONCERNSES
RAISE.
IF WE EXPORT ALL THE PORK, AS
LONG AS WE CAN RESPOND TO THE
MARKET, WE'LL GROW MORE, AND WE
HAVE PLENTY OF FOOD IN THE
UNITED STATES.
WE CAN ARGUE THAT DISTRIBUTION
SOMETIMES, BUT STILL I DON'T
THINK THERE'S A REAL ISSUE THERE
THAT MERITS A LOT OF
HANDWRINGING ON OUR PART, EVEN
THOUGH AT SOME POINT WE HAVE TO
BE CONCERNED ABOUT FOREIGN
OWNERSHIP.
I DON'T THINK WE'RE NEARLY AT
THAT POINT IN MY MINE.
>> Woodruff: AS AMERICANS ARE
EATING LESS PORK, THE CHINESE
ARE EATING PER.
GENTLEMEN THANK YOU BOTH FOR
BEING WITH US,S CAN MIRE, THILO
HANEMANN
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT:
A TALE OF TWO BROTHERS.
IMMIGRANTS TO THE U.S. WHO CAME
FROM INDIA IN THE 1970s.
DOCTORS WHO'VE HAD GREAT SUCCESS
AND IMPACTS IN DIFFERENT WORLDS
OF MEDICINE.
THEIR STORY IS TOLD IN THE NEW
BOOK, "BROTHERHOOD: DHARMA,
DESTINY AND THE AMERICAN DREAM".
IT'S A DOUBLE MEMOIR BY DEEPAK
AND SUNJIV CHOPRA.
OLDER BROTHER DEEPAK IS THE
BEST-SELLING AUTHOR AND
AUTHORITY ON EASTERN MEDICINE.
YOUNGER BROTHER SUNJIV IS A
PROFESSOR AT THE HARVARD MEDICAL
SCHOOL AND HIMSELF AUTHOR OF
FIVE BOOKS.
I SAT DOWN WITH THEM RECENTLY.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Brown: A KEY CHARACTER
CLEARLY IN YOUR LIVES,
OBVIOUSLY, AND THE TO A LOT OF
WHAT YOU DID IS YOUR FATHER AIR,
PHYSICIAN HIMSELF, DEEPLY
INVOLVED, THOUGHTFUL MAN.
TELL ME-- TELL BUS HIM, AND WHAT
HE MEANT.
>> IT'S VERY CLEAR HE WAS THE
MOST IMPORTANT INFLUENCE IN BOTH
OURSELVES LIVE, NOT THAT OUR
MOTHER WASN'T.
SHE WAS A GREAT STORYTELLER, BUT
HE WAS AN AMAZING, SKILLED,
CARDIOLOGIST AND PHYSICIAN.
HE TRAINED AT A TIME WHEN THE
E.COME G. WAS JUST COMING, IN
1940 NECESSARY ENGLAND WITH THE
PEOPLE WHO HAD ACTUALLY INVENTED
THE E.K.G. MACHINE.
HEEBLGD LISTEN TO THE HEART AND
TELL THE EXACT ELECTRICAL, INTO
THE MICROSECONDS, THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THE ORACLE AND THE
VENTRICLE OF BEAT.
HE WAS THAT GOOD.
HE WAS AN AMAZING DIAGNOSTICIAN,
BUT HE WAS COMPASSIONATE,
EMPATHETIC, STORIED TELLER.
A RENAISSANCE MAN.
>> Brown: THE TWO OF YOU
CLEARLY FOLLOWED IN HIS
FOOTSTEPS STUDYING MEDICINE.
SOMETIMES THERE'S A FLIP SIDE OF
A FATHER-SON RELATIONSHIP, OF A
REBELLION AGAINST THE FATHER.
WAS THAT THERE THAT AS WELL?
>> I THINK DEEPAK DID.
HE DIDN'T WANT TO BE A DOCTOR.
HE WANTED TO BE A JOURNALIST.
>> HE WANTED BOTH OF US TO GO
INTO THE PROFESSION AND I DIDN'T
WANT TO.
I WANTED TO BE A WRITER,
FICTION, MOSTLY, AND ON MY
14th BIRTHDAY HE GIVED NOVELS BE
ST. CLAIRE LEWIS, AND ALL THE
PROTAGONISTS IN ALL THE NOVELS
WERE FDLE.
FDLES-- PHYSICIAN.
>> A SUBLIMINAL MESSAGE THERE.
HE PLANTED THE SEED.
>> Brown: AND YOUR EXPERIENCE
WAS MORE STRAIGHTFORWARD?
>> MY EXPERIENCE WAS MORE
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
WE WERE STUDYING AT ST. COLUMBUS
HIGH SCHOOL IN DELHI.
I TURNED BLIND ONE DAY--
>> Brown: YOU RIGHT ABOUT
THIS.
>> AND I SAID, "DEEPAK, DEEPAK,
I CAN'T SEE."
AND HE STARTED CRYING.
THEY TOOK ME TO THE MILITARY
HOSPITAL IN DELHI.
THE DOCTORS DIDN'T HAVE THE
FOGGIEST IDEA AS TO WHAT WAS
GOING ON,.
THOUGHT OF HYSTERICAL MINDNESS,
AND OUR FATHER 3,000MIAWAY,
MADE THE DIAGNOSISINOSEIS,
SAYING HE WAS HAVING A RARE
REACTION TO A SERUM, AND GIVE
HIM NASSIVE DOSES OF PREDNISONE,
AND MY VISION RETURNED.
I WAS AFRAID TO GO INTO
CARDIOLOGY BECAUSE I THOUGHT HE
WAS SUCH AN ESTEEMED
CARDIOLOGIST, HE WAS PHYSICIAN
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE INDIA.
>> AND TO LORD BATTEN.
AND HE WAS THE FIRST ONE TO
DESCRIBE MOUNT SICKNESS,
HIGH-ALTITUDE PRIMARY
HYPERTENSION, AND WHEN THE
INDIAN SOLDIERS WERE COMING DOWN
WITH THIS STRANGE SICKNESS IN
THE WAR WITH CHINA, HE LAND AID
PLANE 22,000 FEET ABOVE SEA
LEVEL AND WAS PUTTING TABS IN
PEOPLE'S CHARTS WHILE PEOPLE
WERE SHOOTING EACH OTHER.
>> Brown: YOU'RE KNOWN FOR
AYVERDIC IMMEDIATE.
AND YOUR FATHER CONSIDERED THIS
SUPERSTITIOUS, FOLK WADE, AND
HERE YOU ARE BRINGING TO THE
U.S. THAT MANY THOUGHT WAS
BACKWARDS.
>> MANY STILL DO.
I WAS VERY SELECTIVE.
JUST BECAUSE SOMETHING IS
ANCIENT DOESN'T MEAN IT'S GOOD.
THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS THAT
HAVE SURVIVED, AND MOST ARE IN
THE AREA OF HOW CONSCIOUSNESS
AFFECT OURSELVES BIOL.
WHEN I WOULD SAY YOUR BIOLOGY IS
DIFFERENT IN DIFFERENT STATES OF
CONSCIOUSNESS, PEOPLE SAID,
"WHAT IS THAT?"
I ALSO TRAINED IN
NEUROENCRINNOLOGY WHERE IT'S
VERY CLEAR THAT EVERY EMOTION
YOU HAVE IS FOLLOWED PIE A
MOLECULE THAT REPRESENTS THAT
EMOTION.
I WAS, OF COURSE, PRIVY TO THIS
ANCIENT WISDOM THROUGH MY ONLY
PERSON EXPERIENCES, AND THE
EXPERIENCES OF MY PATIENTS.
BU>> Brown: WHAT KIND OF
TENSIONS DID THIS BRING ABOUT
WITH YOU OR YOUR FATHER?
>> I THOUGHT DEEPAK WAS BEING
VERY COURAGEOUS.
>> Brown: COURAGEOUS.
I WAS WONDERING ABOUT SOMETHING
DIFFERENT-- CRAZY.
>> CRAZY, ALSO.
AND HE HAD A THRIVING PRACTICE
IN MASSACHUSETTS.
MEDICAL STUDENTS FROM NEW
ENGLAND MEDICAL CENTER, TUFTS
MEDICAL SCHOOL WOULD ROTATE
THROUGH THE OFFICE.
HE WOULD TEACH THEM.
AND ONE DAY ANNOUNCES HE'S GOING
TO GO TO CALIFORNIA AND DO MY
BODY.
TO DARE IS TO LOSE ONE'S FOOTING
MOMENTARILY.
TODAY IS NOLOSE ONES.
OF I THINK DEEPAK FOUND HIMSELF.
>> CALIFORNIA WAS MORE TOLERANT
OF HIPPIES.
>> Brown: BACK THEN.
THE OTHER THING YOU'RE CLEARLY
DOING IN THIS BOOK IS TELLING AN
IMMIGRANT STORY.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
>> Brown: OF COME TYING
COUNTRY AND LEARNING THE WAYS,
AND ESPECIALLY THE EARLY
CHAPTERS, YOU KNOW THE THINGS SO
MANY HAVE GONE THROUGH AND
LEARNING-- WATCHING TELEVISION
AND NEW FOOD AND ALL, RIGHT?
TO WHAT DEGREE-- LET ME ASK YOU
DEEPAK, FIRST-- TO WHAT DEGREE
DO YOU FEEL YOU BECAME AN
AMERICAN, EVEN YEARS LATER, OR
HOW MUCH DO YOU STILL LIVE IN
BOTH WORLDED.
>> I LIVED IN BOTH WORLDS AND
FORMATIVE YEARS NEVER GO AWAY.
THEY SHAPE YOUR PERSONALITY.
THEY SHAPE YOUR CHARACTER.
THEY SHAPE YOUR VALUES.
WE HAVE LIVED 22 YEARS IN INDIA,
SO, OBVIOUSLY, WE ARE AMERICAN
CITIZENS, BOTH OF US RECEIVED
THE ELLIS ISLAND AWARD FOR
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE UNITED
STATES.
I'VE BEEN CLOSE TO TWO U.S.
PRESIDENTS.
AND, YOU KNOW, HAVE HAD VERY
GOOD FORTUNE MEETING JUST ABOUT
EVERY MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR IN THIS
COUNTRY.
SO I CONSIDER MYSELF AN MIRN
WITH-- AMERICAN WITHAIN INDIAN
ACCENT.
>> Announcer: HOW DO YOU FEEL
ABOUT THAT?
>> I DO, TOO.
I WAS FASHIONATE ABOUT CRICKET.
I DON'T EVEN THINK ABOUT CRICKET
ANYMORE.
OUR MIDDLE DAUGHTER WHO IS
MARRIED WITH TWO DAUGHTERS WHEN
SHE WAS SIX ONE DAY CAME BACK
FROM SCHOOL AND WHEN I CAME BACK
FROM THE HOSPITAL SHE SAID, DAD,
I NEED TO TALK TO YOU."
I SAID, "IS EVERYTHING OKAY."
AND SHE SAID, "DAD, ARE WE CRIN
OR ARE WE JEWISH?"
AND THE REASON IS EVERYBODY AT
SCHOOL WAS CELEBRATING HANUKKAH
AND CHRISTMAS WITH GIFTS.
THAT WAS VERY TELL.
WE USED TO CELEBRATE THE HOLIDAY
CALLED "THE VALLEY."
WE WOULD DO IT FOR THE WEEKEND
FOR THE NEXT SEVERAL YEARS, THEY
DIDN'T GO TO SCHOOL THAT DAY.
AND THE NEXT DAY THEY WENT TO
SCHOOL, AND WHEN HER CLASSMATES
ASKED WHAT HAPPENED, THEY SAID
WE'RE EXPLAINING THE VALLEY.
>> Brown: WE'LL CONTINUE OUR
CONVERSATION ONLINE.
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE SECRET SERVICE SAID A
SUSPICIOUS LETTER WAS
INTERCEPTED AT THE WHITE HOUSE
MAIL FACILITY.
IT'S SIMILAR TO TWO LETTERS
LACED WITH RICIN, AND MAILED TO
NEW YORK CITY MAYOR MICHAEL
BLOOMBERG AND HIS GUN CONTROL
GROUP.
THE SURGE OF SECTARIAN BLOODSHED
IN IRAQ CLAIMED ANOTHER 33 LIVES
IN BAGHDAD AND SYRIAN PRESIDENT
ASSAD SAID HIS COUNTRY HAS
RECEIVED NEW WEAPONS FROM
RUSSIA, BUT HE DID NOT SAY IF
THEY INCLUDE ADVANCED AIR-
DEFENSE MISSILES.
>> Brown: ONLINE, WE ANNOUNCE
THE FINALISTS-- DRUMROLL,
PLEASE-- IN OUR SCIENCE RAP
CONTEST.
KWAME HOLMAN HAS MORE.
>> Holman: CAN THE BIG BANG
THEORY BE EXPLAINED IN 16 BARS
OF VERSE?
WE CHALLENGED VIEWERS TO DO JUST
THAT: BREAK DOWN A SCIENTIFIC
CONCEPT IN A RAP.
WE'VE GOT THE FINALISTS FROM
MORE THAN 100 ENTRIES.
WATCH ALL THE LAST RAPS
STANDING, ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
YESTERDAY ON MAKING SENSE,
ECONOMIST PAUL KRUGMAN ARGUED
GOVERNMENT DEBT SHOULD NOT BE
THE CHIEF CONCERN.
TODAY, FORMER REAGAN
ADMINISTRATION BUDGET BOSS DAVID
STOCKMAN, WARNS OF CATASTROPHE
UNLESS GOVERNMENT SPENDING IS
CUT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
JEFF?
>> Brown: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS, AMONG
OTHERS.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.